Hello everyone. Uh thank you for joining this uh
this session. So in this session we are going to
talk about how you can build uh AI agents uh using
uh cloud on vertex AI. So before to start let's
see the uh let's set the scene. So as you probably
know like building AI agent is very powerful.
with the II agents you can build such a cool
applications but the reality is after you start
developing and you know prototyping agents and
let's assume that you are happy with what you
built it's so hard to productionalize
these agents right and the reason are
essentially three uh so first of all you need to
because uh right now to build agent you have so
many frameworks that provides you know tools
that provides uh capabilities that you can
uh that you can use to enhance your agents like
the landscape is so fragmented. So you need
to figure it out how to integrate the different
frameworks and different tools to make the system
work. So the the other the other reason is let's
assume that you are capable of building one agent
or a multi- aent system with one framework but at
the same time you want to use different framework
together. It's not easy to um like make um make
the communication happen between these two set of
uh you know different agents. And then even let's
assume that even if you're able to you know build
agents uh create this network of of agents that
are capable of communicating between them it's so
hard to manage uh them in production because you
need to take care of all the operation around the
agents and the relative governance. So all the
monitoring capabilities the logging capabilities
that you need to implement on your agent they are
very hard to uh be managed. Uh in this sense uh
let's imagine that uh you we you will be able to
have a toolkit that will allows you to standardize
and develop your agent in a very efficient way
and then together with this toolkit you you get
a set of protocols that will allows your agent to
consume uh tool and context with the M but at the
same time connect with other agent in a seamless
way. And third you will you will get an u agent
platform that will allows you to deploy at scale
these uh agent system and you know manage all the
uh operations that are around these uh this new
kind of application. So with these challenges
in mind and these three you know um three main
um reason that we want to address that's why we
define our own agent stack on Google cloud and our
agent stack is composed by four main components.
So the first one is agent development kit which is
a an open-source code first and developer friendly
uh framework that will allows you to build
evaluate and deploy your agent uh at scale. But
in order to enhance your agent you have a you need
a way to standardize the agent communicate with
different tools as I saw you before. So to address
these challenges of protocols, one one thing that
we did when we designed agent development
kit is made and is making it compatible with
um um MCP. So probably you know what is MCP uh you
already uh heard about it but with MCP essentially
you will make the agent compatible uh with uh
several tools and in general application will be
uh you will provide your context to your
application using LLMs on top of MCP.
So we also introduce like this Vert.x AI engine
engine which is essentially a managed platform
that has been designed to deploy, manage and scale
your AI agent in production and uh it takes care
of all the those operational challenges and uh
you know possible capabilities that you need
uh in order to uh deploy your agent in production.
And finally to address the challenges of
uh allow communication between different agent um
build with different frameworks we also introduce
uh agentto agent protocol. So which is essentially
you know uh open source uh an open source protocol
that will allows you to create this seamless
communication and collaboration between agents
in whatever framework you build. So with this
talk we so today we are going to use this talk to
uh build uh multi- aent systems and but before
to do that let me to introduce myself I'm Ian
Ardini I'm a developer advocate at the Google
cloud I'm based in sunny and uh today I want to
go through this journey with you and the journey
will starts with building a very simple ADK agents
uh using cloud and then we are going to enhance
these agents using uh some uh pre-built tools and
MCP and finally Finally, we will deploy
the agents on agent engine. As a bonus,
we will try to cover which I will try also to show
you how you can connect multiple agent using agent
to agent protocol. Uh but in case we are not
we we will not able to do that. Don't worry,
we are going to have a live webinar at the end
of the month. So we will show you how to do that
later. With that being said, we want to build an
agent. But to build an agent, we need an an LLM.
So let me show you how you can get access to cloud
models on vertex AI. So cloud model cloud models
on vert.xai are accessible through vert.xi model
garden which is essentially a centralized hub
where you can discover, deploy and manage a wide
variety of foundational and open models including
uh cloud. So on uh on um model garden you will
find the latest and greatest cloud model. This
morning we just rolled out uh cloud uh 4. So I
will show you and um after you simply you know
fill um you know you provide some credential and
everything you will get access to the model and
you will able to use it through API or through the
console. So without further ado let me show you
how you can get access to cloud. So let's switch
on the yes so for people that doesn't know vertex
AI this is how the vertexi console looks like.
So you vert.xi provide a set of services to build
both generative AI and predictive AI application
and model garden as I said is a centralized app
that provides you several model from different you
know model providers including cloud in including
entropic. In fact in the uh partner session you
will find the entropy models and here you can see
all the entropy models that we provide including
the latest that we released this morning. So in
order to you can use model garden to test this
model. So uh here is u the vert.xi um vert.xi
studio which is our prompt UI that you can use for
test this model. As you see I already select cloud
3.7 sonet which is the model that we are going to
use today to build our agent. Uh we are already
integrating cloud uh 4 with ADK. So stay tuned
in the coming weeks. But through this UI what you
can do you can test the model and uh you know you
can start you can start interacting with it and uh
using the API that you can get here to integrate
with your uh application. So with that being said
now that you know more or less how you know to get
access to cloud through vertex AI let's go back
to the presentation and let's start building
agents using this model. So for the in this
uh in this um in this demo we are going to build
a very simple agent which is a birth uh birthday
a birthday birthday planner agent. So uh we will u
we will it's an agent that essentially will allows
you to organize a birthday party such as in teams
and you know getting the guest list and so on and
uh in before to start this uh before to build this
agent you need to know some concept related to
ADK. Uh just one thing I know this uh this uh this
session is supposed to be a workshop but because
all the Wi-Fi issue that you've already faced I
will uh I know we will uh we will already give you
some credits and I will share the repository with
you. So after this session you will be able to
reproduce this code I'm going to show you at home
and if you have question you can always come back
to me. Okay, with that being said, these are the
core concept that you need to know about ADK in
order to build an agent with the agent development
kit. First of all, agent development kit provides
several type of agents that you can use. Uh
you already pre-built some you know pattern
uh so aenting pattern including sequential agents
that you can use in order to implement your
application. But the simplest pattern that you can
find is the the one that we use with the LLM agent
which essentially used just an LLM to feed uh to
you know um build to use the agent to build the
agent. And so uh the this this class represent
the brain of the agent and it supports several
models including claude uh claude and essentially
it allowed uh it requires you to set the model
give it uh the agent a name some instructions
and define the tool that you want to use and
then after you have done this you get your agent
already up and running with respect of tools you
know what is a tool is it's essentially a mean
that you can use to you know assign some skills
to the agent and um uh ADK A we provide some
pre-build tools that you can use but you also can
you can also define your own tools and integrate
with the with the framework. So you have the
agents, you have the tool in ADK. You have this
concept of runner that puts together everything
and coordinates um you know execute the agents. So
it manage the session. So the conversation state
along the uh while you're running the agents and
it is integrated with a very nice CLI that you can
see here uh ADK run and ADK web that will allows
you to interact with the agent programmatically
or you know through a web UI that I will show you
later. And then uh last last important thing that
I want to mention you have this concept of session
which essentially will allows you to store uh the
conversation and interact with the agent in a
way that you know it remembers what uh what you
already discussed with him before. Okay. So with
that being said, I told you ADK support cloud how
it is support cloud with two you can use cloud
in two ways with ADK through the LL light LLM
integration which is something that I will assume
you're familiar with or you can use the pre-build
integration that we provide as a vertx team uh
using cloud and the LLM registry which is the
one that I will show you uh today. It's just a
nice way you know to integrate the model with the
with the interface. So with that being said, let
me show you how you can build um an agent using u
using ADK. So this is the repository that uh
you will u you will get once you uh download
from once you get once you clone the repo from
GitHub. So in the repository you will have three
agents. We are going to cover them uh today. And
the first one as I said is the birthday planner.
So in order to build an agent with ADK all you
need to do is providing essentially three file
uh the agent.py PI which contain the agent logics
uh the environment variable file which contains
all the environment variable that you want to use
for your agent and an init file as you probably
are familiar with. So just these three file will
allows you to run the agent and as you can see
we designed ADK to be so close uh to software
engineering best practices. So this is something
that you should be capable of running easily. With
that being said here you can see how you can use
ADK. So you need to import the LLM agent class,
the cloud class which is going to represent the
cloud model that we are going to use today and uh
then you can introduce uh you can also use some
other classes related to memory the runner that
I already explained. But with that being said
once you get this uh once you import this class
this is all the bullet plate code that you need
to write in order to create your first agent. So
you use the LLM agent class. You define a name,
the model that you want to use, in this case the
cloth 3.7, the description, so what the agent is
going to do and the instruction that you want to
give to the agent. That's it. Once you have this,
you are ready to go. So all you need to do is that
running if you want to interact with the agent in
a programmatic way, you can run ad run and then
behind the scene it will start a session with
your agent. Oh, sorry, I forgot one thing. NDK
run birthday and then uh it will run a session
uh an interactive session with your agent. So from
here you can start interacting with your agent and
you can start you know understanding how it works
and so in this way you can iteratively develop
develop the agents. So and you can improve the
agent depending on the task that you are trying
to achieve. So again three files one CLI and
you're done and you can you can start you know
uh improving your agents. So let's go back to
the slide. Okay. So let's assume that uh you
know you clone the repo, you get your agent up and
running. Uh let's make things a little bit more
complicated. So we want to extend our agents uh in
a way that it becomes a multi- aent system. So we
have this agent that it will give us suggestion
for the birthday party. But then once we get the
birthday party, we want also you know to schedule
some time in our agenda for example for going and
buy the gift for the party or you know just
setting a reminder of the birthday day. So
how you do that you do uh you introduce you know
tools and uh the cool thing of ADK is that we we
didn't want to reinvent the wheel. So we uh we by
day zero we introduced this integration with MCP.
So again I'm not going to explain you what uh it
is MCP and the difference between you know the
language specific tools or the API. The idea is
essentially with MCP you standardize the way LLM
u get access to the context not only LLM but
also but also agents. Uh with ADK you have two
ways to use uh MCP. So you can use MCP uh some MCP
existing uh server and uh you know integrate them
as a tool with ADK. This is something that we are
going to do today. So whatever MCP server is out
there you can use just uh like you can use today
already with the ADK without you reinventing you
know the wheel in that sense or if you have a ADK
and you build some tool in ADK you can use MCP to
deploy this tool and interact with other agents.
So these are the two ways that you have uh that
you can use to leverage NCP with ADK. So with that
being said uh let me show you how you can use uh
ADK with MCP. So let's go back here. Let me exit
to this agent and then let's go to So this is the
second agent. So again as I said now we want to
what we want to do is that we want to introduce
um a calendar service agent which will allows
me to schedule some time in my in my agenda and
because now we have two agents the birthday one
and the calendar one we want to also introduce
an orchestrator which route my you know request
to the right agent depending on what uh I want to
achieve. So in this particular case the birthday
planner is exactly the same agent that we defined
before except that now I want to create an IB
system um because for example like for scheduling
for some for getting some birthday idea I can use
also a very you know I can use also a different
model like Gemini but then I have these calendar
agents that in this case we use again cloud 3.5
with an NCP server to schedule some time in my
agenda. So in order to use an MCP server with ADK,
these are the two line of codes that you need
to uh introduce. So you get um you you get to
the MCP server that you already have out there
or you already created right or deployed as a
as a serverless service and then you create a
connection with it and then what happened behind
the scene when you start building your agent when
you run this command and you start building your
agent what it does it like get all the information
all the requirements to run your MCP server it
converts these MCP servers as a tool and he
use these MCP servers as a tool of the agent
That's it. But again, the the cool thing, what I
really believe is powerful of ADK is that it will
allows me with two line of codes to integrate
any kind of NCP tool that you have already.
Once you have this MCP tool, you integrate it
as a tool again in the our agent and you're
done. Same similar things. Uh so now we have the
birthday agent, we have the calendar agent. This
is how the or the organizer look like. So look
at how easy it is to pass multiple agents in a
uh in an orchestrator like this one. Again you all
you need to do is defining a better instruction
because in this case this agent is going to
orchestrate a multi- aent system. So you will
define what agent like what what each agent is
capable of doing and then you pass all the agent
as a tool in this orchestrator. So again it will
figure it out what agent to use depending on your
request. Once you have done this, you are good
to go. So what we can do is that running u uh
going back here
[Music] local actually let me do this. Let me
show you this. So before I show you how you can
interact uh I can spin up an agent interactive
programmatic programmatically. But because now
this system is more complicated. We have three
agents, right? We want something more a little
bit more solid to to try to understand what is
happening behind the scene. So in ADK you have
this uh web UI which allows you to um debug and
interact uh interact with your agent. So this is
uh the web UI. So in this case this is how it
looks like. So the web UI we select the agent
that I want to run and this is uh so in this case
it's like what we did before except that now we
have the um we have the other agents we have the
multi- aent system that is running behind the
scene and as you can see here this UI will nicely
provides you a way to see what is happening behind
the scene with your agent. So while you are uh
while you're running the conversation with it,
you will see which agent is using for
doing what. Okay, with that being said,
so now you know also the web UI. Let's go back on
the on the presentation. Thank you. So uh let's
um for the last part of this presentation, I want
to show you also how you can easily deploy uh the
uh the agent on agent engine. So in order to do
that um let me do this. Yeah. In order to do that
um let me first introduce you what what is an
a what is why why you need an agent engine like
this one. Essentially when uh when you need to
deploy agent at scale in order to do that you
need to figure it out a lot of complexity right
you need to get your agent code you need to
uh um you know wrap the agent in one of those
services like fast API or jungo you need to
build your container and then you know you need
to figure it out your environment to run it in
this case it can be a GCP environment and then uh
you need to uh handle all the operation related to
infrastructure and at the same time you also also
need to monitor this agent because at the end of
the day is a is an application right. So with the
agent engine what uh you can simply deploy the
agent using a method like agent engine create and
you will get your agent up and running as well as
all these observability um all the observability
capabilities and the monitoring that you need in
order to deploy your agent. they are directly
managed by the platform itself and uh also all
the interaction that you have with the agents they
are going to be automatically uh collected by our
logging system and you will directly use them to
run some evaluation in a way that you know you
can keep improving your agent along time. So these
are like this gives you an idea of the reason why
you want to consider an agent engine and this give
you the picture the overall picture of the agent
of vertxi agent engine. So in this picture as you
can see agent engine is capable of integrating you
know any kind of agent framework uh ADK as you as
a as I just said but if you build agent with lang
graph lchain you can you can do that you can use
those framework as well and then um with whatever
tools and whatever model that you want and the
agent engine will take care of deploying your
agents and we'll enable all these observability
uh capabilities or features that you need using
some cloud tools and uh the evaluation part is
also covered by one of our services which is the
vert.x AI evaluation service. So to wrap up like
the agent engine capabilities. So you can deploy
any uh agent that like uh you can define agent
in any framework that you want. You can use this
uh manage runtime to deploy these agents and then
you will automatically get you will automatically
be able to observe the behavior of the agent. call
the agent at scale and we uh the agent engine uh
uh it also has an integration with another with
another services that we provide on Google cloud
which is a agent space which I'm not going to
cover today but just to give an idea it's the
gate that will allows your agent to go in the
ends of business. So really you know have an
impact of the agents that you're going to build in
an enterprise context. But with that being said,
uh let me jump in the last lab that we are
going to cover today. So I already show you
um how you can build the agent. So in this last
lab what I want to show you is how you can easily
deploy an agent with a few line of codes. So
in the repository you will find this uh this
uh module that essentially will allows you to
iteratively deploy your agents. All you need to
do to deploy an agent on vertxi agent engine
is providing the base requirements that your
agent needs in order to run and then as I said
we provide already a class that will allows you
to create an agent endpoint in this case on
the agent engine. So in this class you have
your agent that you define. In this case we are
going to deploy the first agent the birth planner
agent. And then here you have the requirements.
You can provide extra packages if you want. But
then again few line of codes to deploy your agent
in in a in a manager in a managed service that is
scalable and will allows you to open your agent to
several users. So with that being said, let me run
this script. So first of all, let me close this
session. Clear. Then let me go in the repository
ls
ls and then here I have my module. So
in this case I do python deploy agent.
So what happened behind the scene is that it
will start uh deploying my agent. So you can
monitor the deploy on the agent directly in
the Vert.exi console. Now this step is going
to get some time as you can imagine because it's
building the image and deploying the agents. So
let me directly jump into the UI. So once you once
the deployment of the agent will successfully run,
what you will do is uh you will get an entry in
the Vert.Ex AI agent engine UI and from this UI
you will be able to monitor this agent. So the
query that it receives uh the latency that uh it
takes so how how long it takes to respond to the
query and you will also monitor you know the CPU
and the memory that the agent is using. So you
can better understand if um you allocate enough
uh resources to serve this agent at scale.
The engine is is also manage session. So in
this case I just deployed one. So we don't start a
session yet. But here you will see the session and
uh it will gives you all the information that you
need in order you know to integrate this agent
in application both in a real time or streaming
depending on the method that you want to use and
you can always check the details of the of the
deployment. Okay. So let's go. So now you have
also an idea how to deploy uh the agent. Let's
go back to slide. Thank you. So as I said this
was a bonus part. I don't think we are going to co
we have time to cover it but what I want to tell
you is that let's assume that you build your
agent you deploy it on agent engine right and
u right now we build all our agent using just ADK
but what if you want to deploy or build your agent
build and deploy your agent using lchain crew
AI or whatever framework as I already said agent
engine support this but what the the main problem
is that you you don't have a way to connect these
agents that are built with different framework
together Right. So that's when you need a protocol
to do that. So in a world where you have you
are going to have multiple agents that they are
uh they are uh built and deployed with different
framework there is this need to find a common
language between these agent to interact to
interact and collaborate in order to achieve some
task and that's why as a Google cloud we introduce
uh agent to agent protocol. So again, it's an open
protocol that has been designed to uh enhance to
foster the agent collaboration using very simple
um uh concept that I will show you in a minute.
But the key thing that I want to share with you is
that has been already designed to to be enterprise
ready. So it has a a bunch of features that will
allows you to govern and uh in a secure way
your agents and we again also in this case we
didn't invent the wheel because it's based on some
standard protocol HTTP JSON RCP something that is
common adopted in the industry. The concept that
you need to know about is the concept of agent
skills. So which essentially describe the function
or the capability of the agents and it's it's a
like a business card of your agent with respect
to other agents and then you have u the the sorry
the the agent skill describe what the agent is
capable of doing. So uh it manage the function
that the agent has and then you have the agent
card that essentially is a a digital business
card for the agent will allow other agent or other
application to know what the skills what are the
skills of the agent and how to interact with
it. So one is describe the agent the other one
describe what is the agent capable of doing to the
other agents and then as before you have an agent
executor that essentially manage the communication
the request and and the response that this system
generates between agents. So these three concept
with this three concept you can build system like
this one where you will you will essentially
have multiple agents uh written with different
framework communicating between each other in
order to achieve a particular and more complex
task rather than the one we build today of you
know uh scheduling or buying a birthday gift. So
we are not going to cover this today but again as
I said at the beginning we are going to have a web
uh live webinar at the end of the month. So I
will share with you the QR code. So just recap,
we start from these three main problems, right?
Building agent agent that is powerful but there
are several challenges when you want to put them
in production. You have a fragmented landscape.
Uh there are some integration complexity that
you need to manage. And even if you're capable
of fixing this, you have to manage all the
operational overhead that uh you need to you
need to handle in order to deploy these agents.
And then that's when you want to enable like you
want to get access to a toolkit protocols and
engine platform that at the end it allows you
to standardize the way you build your agent and
scale them to production and to give you this
kind of tool. We put together this agentic stack
using ADK, MCP, agent engine and entway that will
essentially allows you to confidently build um a
gentic system and scale them in uh in production
as uh required. Okay. So scanner alert. So uh
please get your phone out. I'm going to share with
you some useful uh uh uh circ codes. So the first
one that I want to share with you is code. So in
this in this repository you will find all the code
related to ADK. So samples you know getting start
everything you will find here. Three two one.
Okay. And then if you want to know how if you want
I mean we covered this in 30 minutes but it can
be like a onehour workshop. So here you can find a
webinar we are going to run together with entropic
next month and where we show also the integration
with gateway. So please scan this code. Three,
two, one. Okay. And then I I mean I was fast. So
I I I I assume that you have uh several questions.
So feel free to reach out. I'm always helpful
happy to answer your questions. But with that
being said, I hope you enjoyed the session. I am
just 20 seconds late. So, I hope you enjoyed and
yeah, thank you for uh attending this [Applause]